versioned_docs/version-23.2/get-started/intro-to-rpk.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction to rpk
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Introduction to rpk | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about rpk and how to use it to interact with your Redpanda cluster."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/get-started/intro-to-rpk/" />
</head>

The `rpk` command line interface tool is designed to manage your entire Redpanda cluster, without the need to run a separate script for each function, as with Apache Kafka. The `rpk` commands handle everything from configuring nodes and low-level tuning, to high-level general Redpanda tasks. For example, you can use `rpk` to perform rolling upgrades and tuning, monitor your cluster’s health, and implement access control lists (ACLs) and other security features. You can also use `rpk` to perform basic streaming tasks, such as creating topics, producing to topics, and consuming from topics.

In general, `rpk` commands can be divided into these categories:

* Managing Redpanda
* Managing topics, producing to topics, and consuming from topics
* Debugging and tuning the host
* Interacting with Redpanda Cloud

## Installation methods

The `rpk` binary is bundled with Redpanda, so it is automatically installed on each Redpanda broker. In addition, you can install `rpk` on your local machine as a [standalone binary](../rpk-install). This method can be used for self-hosted and cloud deployments, as well as Kubernetes deployments.

After you install `rpk`, you can use it to interact with a Redpanda cluster. The cluster can run on your local machine, or it can run externally on a remote server or on [Redpanda Cloud](../../deploy/deployment-option/cloud), for example.

The following diagram shows how `rpk` communicates with a Redpanda broker installed on your local machine. The `rpk` binary is installed as part of the Redpanda bundle.

![rpk communicating with a broker on your local machine](../../../static/img/RPK-1-.5x.png)

The next diagram shows how `rpk` communicates with a remote cluster when you install `rpk` as a standalone binary on your local machine.

![rpk communicating with a remote cluster](../../../static/img/RPK-2-.5x.png)

## Specifying command properties

You can specify `rpk` command properties in three ways:

* By specifying the appropriate flag on the command line.
* By defining the corresponding environment variables.

    Environment variable settings only last for the duration of a shell session.

* By editing the configuration file settings in the `rpk` section of the `redpanda.yaml` file.

    Configuration file property settings stay the same for each shell session.

Command line flag settings take precedence over the corresponding environment variables, and environment variables take precedence over configuration file settings. If a required flag is not specified on the command line, Redpanda searches the environment variable. If the environment variable is not set, the value in the configuration file is used.

:::tip
If you specify `rpk` command properties in the configuration file or as environment variables, you don’t need to specify them again on the command line.
:::

The following table lists command properties and their corresponding command line flags, environment variables, and configuration file settings.

| Property | Flag | Environment Variable | Configuration File Field |
| -------- | ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Redpanda Brokers | `--brokers` | `REDPANDA_BROKERS` | `rpk.kafka_api.brokers` |
| Admin API | `--api-urls` | `REDPANDA_API_ADMIN_ADDRS` | `rpk.admin_api.addresses` |
| Redpanda TLS Key | `--tls-key` | `REDPANDA_TLS_KEY` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.key_file` |
| Redpanda TLS Cert | `--tls-cert` | `REDPANDA_TLS_CERT` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.cert_file` |
| Redpanda TLS Truststore | `--tls-truststore` | `REDPANDA_TLS_TRUSTSTORE` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.truststore_file` |
| Redpanda SASL Mechanism | `--sasl-mechanism` | `REDPANDA_SASL_MECHANISM` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.type` |
| Redpanda SASL Username | `--user` | `REDPANDA_SASL_USERNAME` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.user` |
| Redpanda SASL Password | `--password` | `REDPANDA_SASL_PASSWORD` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.password` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Key | `--admin-api-tls-key` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_KEY` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.key_file` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Cert | `--admin-api-tls-cert` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_CERT` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.cert_file` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Truststore | `--admin-api-tls-truststore` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_TRUSTSTORE` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.truststore_file` |

---
## Next steps

* Learn more about setting [broker and admin API addresses](../broker-admin).
* For a list of all `rpk` commands and their syntax, see the [rpk documentation](../../reference/rpk).

Commit message:

docs #1608 add overview topic for -X config options. Replace --brokers and --api-urls flags.

versioned_docs/version-23.2/get-started/intro-to-rpk.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction to rpk
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Introduction to rpk | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about rpk and how to use it to interact with your Redpanda cluster."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/get-started/intro-to-rpk/" />
</head>

The `rpk` command line interface tool is designed to manage your entire Redpanda cluster, without the need to run a separate script for each function, as with Apache Kafka. The `rpk` commands handle everything from configuring nodes and low-level tuning, to high-level general Redpanda tasks. For example, you can use `rpk` to perform rolling upgrades and tuning, monitor your cluster’s health, and implement access control lists (ACLs) and other security features. You can also use `rpk` to perform basic streaming tasks, such as creating topics, producing to topics, and consuming from topics.

In general, `rpk` commands can be divided into these categories:

* Managing Redpanda
* Managing topics, producing to topics, and consuming from topics
* Debugging and tuning the host
* Interacting with Redpanda Cloud

## Installation methods

The `rpk` binary is bundled with Redpanda, so it is automatically installed on each Redpanda broker. In addition, you can install `rpk` on your local machine as a [standalone binary](../rpk-install). This method can be used for self-hosted and cloud deployments, as well as Kubernetes deployments.

After you install `rpk`, you can use it to interact with a Redpanda cluster. The cluster can run on your local machine, or it can run externally on a remote server or on [Redpanda Cloud](../../deploy/deployment-option/cloud), for example.

The following diagram shows how `rpk` communicates with a Redpanda broker installed on your local machine. The `rpk` binary is installed as part of the Redpanda bundle.

![rpk communicating with a broker on your local machine](../../../static/img/RPK-1-.5x.png)

The next diagram shows how `rpk` communicates with a remote cluster when you install `rpk` as a standalone binary on your local machine.

![rpk communicating with a remote cluster](../../../static/img/RPK-2-.5x.png)

## Specifying command properties

You can specify `rpk` command properties in three ways:

* By specifying the appropriate flag on the command line.
* By defining the corresponding environment variables.

    Environment variable settings only last for the duration of a shell session.

* By editing the configuration file settings in the `rpk` section of the `redpanda.yaml` file.

    Configuration file property settings stay the same for each shell session.

Command line flag settings take precedence over the corresponding environment variables, and environment variables take precedence over configuration file settings. If a required flag is not specified on the command line, Redpanda searches the environment variable. If the environment variable is not set, the value in the configuration file is used.

:::tip
If you specify `rpk` command properties in the configuration file or as environment variables, you don’t need to specify them again on the command line.
:::

## Common configuration options

Every `rpk` command supports a set of common configuration options. You can set one or more options in an `rpk` command by using the `-X` flag:

```bash
rpk -X <config-option-1> -X <config-option-2>
```

Get a list of available options with `-X list`:

```bash
rpk -X list
```

Or, get a detailed description about each option with `-X help`:

```bash
rpk -X help
```

<details>
<summary>Deprecated configuration flags</summary>

Prior to `rpk` supporting the `-X` flag, each common configuration option was itself a configurable flag. Those flags are deprecated in this version of `rpk`.

The following table lists the deprecated flags and their corresponding properties, environment variables, and configuration file settings.

| Property | Deprecated Flag | Environment Variable | Configuration File Field |
| -------- | ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| Redpanda Brokers | `--brokers` | `REDPANDA_BROKERS` | `rpk.kafka_api.brokers` |
| Admin API | `--api-urls` | `REDPANDA_API_ADMIN_ADDRS` | `rpk.admin_api.addresses` |
| Redpanda TLS Key | `--tls-key` | `REDPANDA_TLS_KEY` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.key_file` |
| Redpanda TLS Cert | `--tls-cert` | `REDPANDA_TLS_CERT` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.cert_file` |
| Redpanda TLS Truststore | `--tls-truststore` | `REDPANDA_TLS_TRUSTSTORE` | `rpk.kafka_api.tls.truststore_file` |
| Redpanda SASL Mechanism | `--sasl-mechanism` | `REDPANDA_SASL_MECHANISM` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.type` |
| Redpanda SASL Username | `--user` | `REDPANDA_SASL_USERNAME` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.user` |
| Redpanda SASL Password | `--password` | `REDPANDA_SASL_PASSWORD` | `rpk.kafka_api.sasl.password` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Key | `--admin-api-tls-key` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_KEY` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.key_file` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Cert | `--admin-api-tls-cert` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_CERT` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.cert_file` |
| Redpanda Admin API TLS Truststore | `--admin-api-tls-truststore` | `REDPANDA_ADMIN_TLS_TRUSTSTORE` | `rpk.admin_api.tls.truststore_file` |
</details>

---
## Next steps

* Learn more about setting [broker and admin API addresses](../broker-admin).
* For a list of all `rpk` commands and their syntax, see the [rpk documentation](../../reference/rpk).
