versioned_docs/version-23.2/reference/rpk/rpk-profile/rpk-profile-edit-defaults.mdx, before:

---
title: rpk profile edit-defaults
rpk_version: (rev )
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="rpk profile edit-defaults| Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta name="description" content="rpk profile edit-defaults" />
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/reference/rpk/rpk-profile/rpk-profile-edit-defaults/" />
</head>

Edit rpk defaults.

This command opens your default editor to edit the specified profile, or
the current profile if no profile is specified.

## Usage

```bash
rpk profile edit-defaults [flags]
```

## Flags

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <strong>Value</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Type</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Description</strong>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-h, --help</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Help for edit-defaults.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--config</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>
        Redpanda or rpk config file; default search paths are
        ~/.config/rpk/rpk.yaml, $PWD, and /etc/redpanda/`redpanda.yaml`.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-X, --config-opt</td>
      <td>stringArray</td>
      <td>
        Override rpk configuration settings; '-X help' for detail or '-X list'
        for terser detail.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--profile</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>rpk profile to use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-v, --verbose</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Enable verbose logging.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

docs #1608 edit rpk profile pages

versioned_docs/version-23.2/reference/rpk/rpk-profile/rpk-profile-edit-defaults.mdx, after:

---
title: rpk profile edit-defaults
rpk_version: (rev )
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="rpk profile edit-defaults| Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta name="description" content="rpk profile edit-defaults" />
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/reference/rpk/rpk-profile/rpk-profile-edit-defaults/" />
</head>

Edit defaults for all rpk profiles.

This command opens your default editor to edit the default values for all profiles.

## Usage

```bash
rpk profile edit-defaults [flags]
```

## Flags

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <strong>Value</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Type</strong>
      </td>
      <td>
        <strong>Description</strong>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-h, --help</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Help for edit-defaults.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--config</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>
        Redpanda or rpk config file; default search paths are
        ~/.config/rpk/rpk.yaml, $PWD, and /etc/redpanda/`redpanda.yaml`.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-X, --config-opt</td>
      <td>stringArray</td>
      <td>
        Override rpk configuration settings; '-X help' for detail or '-X list'
        for terser detail.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--profile</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>rpk profile to use.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>-v, --verbose</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>Enable verbose logging.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
