docs/develop/http-proxy.mdx, before:

---
title: Use Redpanda with the HTTP Proxy API
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Use Redpanda with the HTTP Proxy API  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="HTTP Proxy exposes a REST API for listing topics, producing events, and subscribing to events from topics using consumer groups."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/develop/http-proxy/" />
</head>


import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Redpanda HTTP Proxy (`pandaproxy`) allows access to your data through a REST API. For example, you can list topics or brokers, get events, produce events, subscribe to events from topics using consumer groups, and commit offsets for a consumer.

## Prerequisites

### Start Redpanda

The first step is to deploy Redpanda. See the [Redpanda Quickstart](../../get-started/quick-start) for more information.

HTTP Proxy is enabled by default on port 8082. To change the proxy port, edit `redpanda.yaml`:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="start-redpanda" label="redpanda.yaml" default>

```yaml
...
pandaproxy:
  // highlight-start
  pandaproxy_api:
    - address: 0.0.0.0
      port: 8082
  // highlight-end
...
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="start-k8s" label="Kubernetes Cluster Resource">

```yaml
apiVersion: redpanda.vectorized.io/v1alpha1
kind: Cluster
...
spec:
    ...
  resources:
  // highlight-start
    pandaproxyApi:
      - port: 8082
  // highlight-end
...
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
The rest of this section assumes that the HTTP proxy port is `8082`, your container (or pod in Kubernetes) is named `redpanda-0`, and your namespace is `panda-ns` (in Kubernetes).
:::

### Configure rpk

Make sure `rpk` is configured for your Redpanda deployment, so you can use it to create a topic:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="config-docker" label="Docker" default>

```
alias rpk="docker exec -ti redpanda-0 rpk"
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="config-k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```
alias rpk="kubectl -n panda-ns exec -ti redpanda-0 -c redpanda -- rpk"
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create a topic

Create a topic to use with HTTP Proxy:

```bash
rpk topic create test_topic -p 3
```

For more information, see [rpk Commands](../../reference/rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-create).

### Set up libraries

You need an app that calls the HTTP Proxy endpoint. This app can be curl (or a similar CLI), or it could be your own custom app written in any language. Below are curl, JavaScript and Python examples.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="env-curl" label="curl" default>

Curl is likely already installed on your system. If not, see [curl download instructions](https://curl.se/download.html).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="env-nodejs" label="NodeJS">

:::note
This is based on the assumption that you're in the root directory of an existing NodeJS project. See [Use NodeJS with Redpanda](../../develop/guide-nodejs) for one way to get started with a new NodeJS project and examples of connecting to Redpanda with a native library.
:::

In a terminal window, run:

```bash
npm install axios
```

Import the library into your code:

```javascript
const axios = require('axios');

const base_uri = 'http://localhost:8082';
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="env-python" label="Python">

In a terminal window, run:

```bash
pip install requests
```

Import the library into your code:

```python
import requests
import json

def pretty(text):
  print(json.dumps(text, indent=2))

base_uri = "http://localhost:8082"
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Access your data

Here are some sample commands to produce and consume streams:

### Get list of topics

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="topics-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s "localhost:8082/topics"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics`)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application. If your file name is `index.js` for example, you would run the following command:

```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/topics").json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
["test_topic"]
```

### Send events to a topic

Use POST to send events in the REST endpoint query. The header must include the following line:

```
Content-Type:application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json
```

The following commands show how to send events to `test_topic`:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="events-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  -X POST \
  "http://localhost:8082/topics/test_topic" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "records":[
      {
          "value":"Redpanda",
          "partition":0
      },
      {
          "value":"HTTP proxy",
          "partition":1
      },
      {
          "value":"Test event",
          "partition":2
      }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS">


```javascript
let payload = { records: [
  {
    "value":"Redpanda",
    "partition": 0
  },
  {
    "value":"HTTP proxy",
    "partition": 1
  },
  {
    "value":"Test event",
    "partition": 2
  }
]};

let options = { headers: { "Content-Type" : "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/topics/test_topic`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/topics/test_topic",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(records=[
            dict(value="Redpanda", partition=0),
            dict(value="HTTP Proxy", partition=1),
            dict(value="Test Event", partition=2)
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output (may be formatted differently depending on the chosen application):

```bash
{"offsets":[{"partition":0,"offset":0},{"partition":2,"offset":0},{"partition":1,"offset":0}]}
```

### Get events from a topic

After events have been sent to the topic, you can retrieve these same events.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  "http://localhost:8082/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records?offset=0&timeout=1000&max_bytes=100000"\
  -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: { accept: "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" },
  params: {
    offset: 0,
    timeout: "1000",
    max_bytes: "100000",
  },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
        url=f"{base_uri}/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records",
        params={"offset": 0, "timeout":1000,"max_bytes":100000},
        headers={"Accept": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
[{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Redpanda","partition":0,"offset":0}]
```

### Consume topic events with consumers

To retrieve events from a topic using consumers, you must create a consumer and a consumer group, and then subscribe the consumer instance to a topic. Each action involves a different endpoint and method.

The first endpoint is: `/consumers/<test_group_name>`. For this REST call, the payload is the group information.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  -X POST \
  "http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group"\
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "format":"json",
  "name":"test_consumer",
  "auto.offset.reset":"earliest",
  "auto.commit.enable":"false",
  "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
  "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let payload = {
  "name": "test_consumer",
  "format": "json",
  "auto.offset.reset": "earliest",
  "auto.commit.enable": "false",
  "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
  "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
};

let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group",
    data=json.dumps({
        "name": "test_consumer",
        "format": "json",
        "auto.offset.reset": "earliest",
        "auto.commit.enable": "false",
        "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
        "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
    }),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{"instance_id":"test_consumer","base_uri":"http://127.0.0.1:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer"}
```

:::note
Consumers expire after five minutes of inactivity. To prevent this from happening, try consuming events within a loop. If the consumer has expired, you can create a new one with the same name.
:::

### Subscribe to the topic

After creating the consumer, subscribe to the topic that you created.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
  -X POST \
  "http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/subscription"\
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "topics": [
     "test_topic"
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let payload = { topics: ["test_topic"]};
let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/subscription`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/subscription",
    data=json.dumps({"topics": ["test_topic"]}),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected response is an HTTP 204, without a body. Now you can get the events from `test_topic`.

### Retrieve events

Retrieve the events from the topic:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  "http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/records?timeout=1000&max_bytes=100000"\
  -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: { Accept: "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" },
  params: {
    timeout: "1000",
    max_bytes: "100000",
  },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/records`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/records",
    params={"timeout":1000,"max_bytes":100000},
    headers={"Accept": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
[{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Redpanda","partition":0,"offset":0},{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"HTTP proxy","partition":1,"offset":0},{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Test event","partition":2,"offset":0}]
```

### Get offsets from consumer

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
   -X 'GET' \
  'http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets' \
  -H 'accept: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
  -d '{
  "partitions": [
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 1
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 2
    }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(partitions=[
            dict(topic="test_topic", partition=p) for p in [0, 1, 2]
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)

```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{ "offsets": [{ "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 0, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" },{ "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 1, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" }, { "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 2, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" }] }
```

### Commit offsets for consumer

After events have been handled by a consumer, the offsets can be committed, so that the consumer group won't retrieve them again.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
-X 'POST' \
'http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets' \
-H 'accept: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
-d '{
  "partitions": [
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 0,
      "offset": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 1,
      "offset": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 2,
      "offset": 0
    }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: {
    accept: "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json",
    "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json",
  }
};

let payload = { partitions: [
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 0, offset: 0 },
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 1, offset: 0 },
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 2, offset: 0 },
]};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(partitions=[
            dict(topic="test_topic", partition=p, offset=0) for p in [0, 1, 2]
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output: none.

### Get list of brokers

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl "http://localhost:8082/brokers"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/brokers`)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/brokers").json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{brokers: [0]}
```

### Delete a consumer

To remove a consumer from a group, send a DELETE request as shown below:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
   -X 'DELETE' \
  'http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .delete(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.delete(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer",
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Authenticate with HTTP Proxy

If the Redpanda HTTP Proxy is [configured to use SASL](../../manage/security/authentication), you can provide the SCRAM username and password as part of the Basic Authentication header in your request. For example, to list topics as an authenticated user:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="auth-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -u "<username>:<password>" "localhost:8082/topics"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="auth-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  auth: { username: "<username>", password: "<password>" },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="auth-python" label="Python">

```python
auth = ("<username>", "<password>")
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/topics", auth=auth).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use Swagger with HTTP Proxy

You can use Swagger UI to test and interact with Redpanda HTTP Proxy endpoints.

Use Docker to start Swagger UI:

```bash
docker run -p 80:8080 -d swaggerapi/swagger-ui
```

Verify that the Swagger container is available:

```bash
docker ps
```

Verify that the Docker container has been added and is running:

`swaggerapi/swagger-ui` with `Up…` status

In a browser, enter `localhost` in the address bar to open the Swagger console.

Change the URL to `http://<host_address>:8082/v1`, and click `Explore` to update the page with Redpanda HTTP Proxy endpoints. You can call the endpoints in any application and language that supports web interactions. The following examples show how to call the endpoints using Curl, NodeJS, and Python.

Commit message:

docs #1614 use base-uri variable for curl requests

docs/develop/http-proxy.mdx, after:

---
title: Use Redpanda with the HTTP Proxy API
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Use Redpanda with the HTTP Proxy API  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="HTTP Proxy exposes a REST API for listing topics, producing events, and subscribing to events from topics using consumer groups."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/develop/http-proxy/" />
</head>


import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Redpanda HTTP Proxy (`pandaproxy`) allows access to your data through a REST API. For example, you can list topics or brokers, get events, produce events, subscribe to events from topics using consumer groups, and commit offsets for a consumer.

## Prerequisites

### Start Redpanda

The first step is to deploy Redpanda. See the [Redpanda Quickstart](../../get-started/quick-start) for more information.

HTTP Proxy is enabled by default on port 8082. To change the proxy port, edit `redpanda.yaml`:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="start-redpanda" label="redpanda.yaml" default>

```yaml
...
pandaproxy:
  // highlight-start
  pandaproxy_api:
    - address: 0.0.0.0
      port: 8082
  // highlight-end
...
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="start-k8s" label="Kubernetes Cluster Resource">

```yaml
apiVersion: redpanda.vectorized.io/v1alpha1
kind: Cluster
...
spec:
    ...
  resources:
  // highlight-start
    pandaproxyApi:
      - port: 8082
  // highlight-end
...
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
The rest of this section assumes that the HTTP proxy port is `8082`, your container (or pod in Kubernetes) is named `redpanda-0`, and your namespace is `panda-ns` (in Kubernetes).
:::

### Configure rpk

Make sure `rpk` is configured for your Redpanda deployment, so you can use it to create a topic:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="config-docker" label="Docker" default>

```
alias rpk="docker exec -ti redpanda-0 rpk"
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="config-k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```
alias rpk="kubectl -n panda-ns exec -ti redpanda-0 -c redpanda -- rpk"
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Create a topic

Create a topic to use with HTTP Proxy:

```bash
rpk topic create test_topic -p 3
```

For more information, see [rpk Commands](../../reference/rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-create).

### Set up libraries

You need an app that calls the HTTP Proxy endpoint. This app can be curl (or a similar CLI), or it could be your own custom app written in any language. Below are curl, JavaScript and Python examples.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="env-curl" label="curl" default>

Curl is likely already installed on your system. If not, see [curl download instructions](https://curl.se/download.html).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="env-nodejs" label="NodeJS">

:::note
This is based on the assumption that you're in the root directory of an existing NodeJS project. See [Use NodeJS with Redpanda](../../develop/guide-nodejs) for one way to get started with a new NodeJS project and examples of connecting to Redpanda with a native library.
:::

In a terminal window, run:

```bash
npm install axios
```

Import the library into your code:

```javascript
const axios = require('axios');

const base_uri = 'http://localhost:8082';
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="env-python" label="Python">

In a terminal window, run:

```bash
pip install requests
```

Import the library into your code:

```python
import requests
import json

def pretty(text):
  print(json.dumps(text, indent=2))

base_uri = "http://localhost:8082"
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Access your data

Here are some sample commands to produce and consume streams:

### Get list of topics

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="topics-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s "localhost:8082/topics"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics`)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application. If your file name is `index.js` for example, you would run the following command:

```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/topics").json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
["test_topic"]
```

### Send events to a topic

Use POST to send events in the REST endpoint query. The header must include the following line:

```
Content-Type:application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json
```

The following commands show how to send events to `test_topic`:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="events-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  -X POST \
  "http://localhost:8082/topics/test_topic" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "records":[
      {
          "value":"Redpanda",
          "partition":0
      },
      {
          "value":"HTTP proxy",
          "partition":1
      },
      {
          "value":"Test event",
          "partition":2
      }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS">


```javascript
let payload = { records: [
  {
    "value":"Redpanda",
    "partition": 0
  },
  {
    "value":"HTTP proxy",
    "partition": 1
  },
  {
    "value":"Test event",
    "partition": 2
  }
]};

let options = { headers: { "Content-Type" : "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/topics/test_topic`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/topics/test_topic",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(records=[
            dict(value="Redpanda", partition=0),
            dict(value="HTTP Proxy", partition=1),
            dict(value="Test Event", partition=2)
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output (may be formatted differently depending on the chosen application):

```bash
{"offsets":[{"partition":0,"offset":0},{"partition":2,"offset":0},{"partition":1,"offset":0}]}
```

### Get events from a topic

After events have been sent to the topic, you can retrieve these same events.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  "http://localhost:8082/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records?offset=0&timeout=1000&max_bytes=100000"\
  -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: { accept: "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" },
  params: {
    offset: 0,
    timeout: "1000",
    max_bytes: "100000",
  },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
        url=f"{base_uri}/topics/test_topic/partitions/0/records",
        params={"offset": 0, "timeout":1000,"max_bytes":100000},
        headers={"Accept": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
[{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Redpanda","partition":0,"offset":0}]
```

### Create a consumer

To retrieve events from a topic using consumers, you must create a consumer and a consumer group, and then subscribe the consumer instance to a topic. Each action involves a different endpoint and method.

The first endpoint is: `/consumers/<test_group_name>`. For this REST call, the payload is the group information.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  -X POST \
  "http://localhost:8082/consumers/test_group"\
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "format":"json",
  "name":"test_consumer",
  "auto.offset.reset":"earliest",
  "auto.commit.enable":"false",
  "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
  "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let payload = {
  "name": "test_consumer",
  "format": "json",
  "auto.offset.reset": "earliest",
  "auto.commit.enable": "false",
  "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
  "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
};

let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group",
    data=json.dumps({
        "name": "test_consumer",
        "format": "json",
        "auto.offset.reset": "earliest",
        "auto.commit.enable": "false",
        "fetch.min.bytes": "1",
        "consumer.request.timeout.ms": "10000"
    }),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{"instance_id":"test_consumer","base_uri":"http://127.0.0.1:8082/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer"}
```

:::note notes
- Consumers expire after five minutes of inactivity. To prevent this from happening, try consuming events within a loop. If the consumer has expired, you can create a new one with the same name.
- The output 'base_uri` will be used in subsequent `curl` requests.
:::

### Subscribe to the topic

After creating the consumer, subscribe to the topic that you created.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
  -X POST \
  "<base-uri>/subscription"\
  -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" \
  -d '{
  "topics": [
     "test_topic"
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let payload = { topics: ["test_topic"]};
let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/subscription`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/subscription",
    data=json.dumps({"topics": ["test_topic"]}),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected response is an HTTP 204, without a body. Now you can get the events from `test_topic`.

### Retrieve events

Retrieve the events from the topic:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
  "<base-uri>/records?timeout=1000&max_bytes=100000"\
  -H "Accept: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: { Accept: "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json" },
  params: {
    timeout: "1000",
    max_bytes: "100000",
  },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/records`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/records",
    params={"timeout":1000,"max_bytes":100000},
    headers={"Accept": "application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
[{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Redpanda","partition":0,"offset":0},{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"HTTP proxy","partition":1,"offset":0},{"topic":"test_topic","key":null,"value":"Test event","partition":2,"offset":0}]
```

### Get offsets from consumer

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s \
   -X 'GET' \
  '<base-uri>/offsets' \
  -H 'accept: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
  -d '{
  "partitions": [
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 1
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 2
    }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(partitions=[
            dict(topic="test_topic", partition=p) for p in [0, 1, 2]
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"}).json()
pretty(res)

```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{ "offsets": [{ "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 0, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" },{ "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 1, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" }, { "topic": "test_topic", "partition": 2, "offset": 0, "metadata": "" }] }
```

### Commit offsets for consumer

After events have been handled by a consumer, the offsets can be committed, so that the consumer group won't retrieve them again.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
-X 'POST' \
'<base-uri>/offsets' \
-H 'accept: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
-d '{
  "partitions": [
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 0,
      "offset": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 1,
      "offset": 0
    },
    {
      "topic": "test_topic",
      "partition": 2,
      "offset": 0
    }
  ]
}'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  headers: {
    accept: "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json",
    "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json",
  }
};

let payload = { partitions: [
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 0, offset: 0 },
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 1, offset: 0 },
  { topic: "test_topic", partition: 2, offset: 0 },
]};

axios
  .post(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets`, payload, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

Run the application:
```bash
node index.js
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.post(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer/offsets",
    data=json.dumps(
        dict(partitions=[
            dict(topic="test_topic", partition=p, offset=0) for p in [0, 1, 2]
        ])),
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output: none.

### Get list of brokers

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl "http://localhost:8082/brokers"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/brokers`)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/brokers").json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Expected output:

```bash
{brokers: [0]}
```

### Delete a consumer

To remove a consumer from a group, send a DELETE request as shown below:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="records-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" \
   -X 'DELETE' \
  '<base-uri>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json'
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="topics-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = { headers: { "Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json" }};

axios
  .delete(`${base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="topics-python" label="Python">

```python
res = requests.delete(
    url=f"{base_uri}/consumers/test_group/instances/test_consumer",
    headers={"Content-Type": "application/vnd.kafka.v2+json"})
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Authenticate with HTTP Proxy

If the Redpanda HTTP Proxy is [configured to use SASL](../../manage/security/authentication), you can provide the SCRAM username and password as part of the Basic Authentication header in your request. For example, to list topics as an authenticated user:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="auth-curl" label="Curl" default>

```bash
curl -s -u "<username>:<password>" "localhost:8082/topics"
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="auth-nodejs" label="NodeJS" default>

```javascript
let options = {
  auth: { username: "<username>", password: "<password>" },
};

axios
  .get(`${base_uri}/topics`, options)
  .then(response => console.log(response.data))
  .catch(error => console.log);
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="auth-python" label="Python">

```python
auth = ("<username>", "<password>")
res = requests.get(f"{base_uri}/topics", auth=auth).json()
pretty(res)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use Swagger with HTTP Proxy

You can use Swagger UI to test and interact with Redpanda HTTP Proxy endpoints.

Use Docker to start Swagger UI:

```bash
docker run -p 80:8080 -d swaggerapi/swagger-ui
```

Verify that the Swagger container is available:

```bash
docker ps
```

Verify that the Docker container has been added and is running:

`swaggerapi/swagger-ui` with `Up…` status

In a browser, enter `localhost` in the address bar to open the Swagger console.

Change the URL to `http://<host_address>:8082/v1`, and click `Explore` to update the page with Redpanda HTTP Proxy endpoints. You can call the endpoints in any application and language that supports web interactions. The following examples show how to call the endpoints using Curl, NodeJS, and Python.
