docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/kubernetes/kubernetes-production-deployment.mdx, before:

---
title: Redpanda in Kubernetes
tags:
  - Kubernetes
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda in Kubernetes | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda in Kubernetes and the tools that are available."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/kubernetes/kubernetes-production-deployment/" />
</head>

Kubernetes is a container orchestration tool that helps you to manage Redpanda deployments using declarative configuration files called _manifests_.
Kubernetes provides a standardized way of achieving the following:

- High availability
- Disaster recovery
- Scalability

## Redpanda Helm chart vs Redpanda Operator

To deploy Redpanda in Kubernetes, you can choose to use Helm for its simplicity, or combine Helm with the Redpanda Operator to leverage custom resource definitions (CRDs) for a more GitOps-friendly deployment process. Redpanda Operator is the recommended deployment option.

| Feature                            | Helm                                                       | Helm + Redpanda Operator                                     |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Version management**             | Directly supported through Helm, enabling updates and rollbacks. | Managed through Helm. |
| **Multi-tenant Kubernetes clusters** | Supported. Helm allows you to deploy multiple independent Redpanda clusters by defining different Helm release names. | Supported. The Redpanda Operator enables a more declarative approach for managing multi-tenant clusters using the RedpandaList custom resource. |
| **Dependency and configuration management** | Managed directly through the Redpanda Helm chart. | Configurations defined in custom resources are passed to Helm, which then manages the dependencies and configurations. |

### Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes, which simplifies the process of defining, installing, and upgrading Kubernetes applications. Helm uses charts, a collection of files that describe a related set of Kubernetes resources, to deploy applications in a Kubernetes cluster.

The Redpanda Helm chart generates and applies all the manifest files you need for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes, including:

- The StatefulSet to manage the Redpanda brokers.
- A Headless ClusterIP Service for internal communication with the Redpanda cluster.
- A NodePort Service for external communication with the Redpanda cluster.

The Redpanda Helm chart comes with default settings that enable a straightforward deployment out of the box. However, Helm also offers customization by allowing you to override these default values.

You can override the defaults in your own YAML files using the `--values` option or directly in the command line with the `--set` option. These changes in Helm chart values not only influence the configuration of the Redpanda cluster, but also determine what Kubernetes resources are deployed and how these resources are configured.

### Helm and Redpanda Operator

The recommended option for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes is a combination of Helm and Redpanda Operator.

The Redpanda Operator complements the Redpanda Helm chart by extending Kubernetes with custom resource definitions (CRDs). These CRDs allow Redpanda clusters to be represented as native Kubernetes resources. This abstraction makes it simpler to manage the lifecycle of Redpanda deployments, as the Redpanda Operator takes the specifications declared in the CRDs and passes them to Helm for execution.

When using the Redpanda Operator, configurations defined in the custom resources are passed to Helm, which then deploys the Redpanda cluster according to these specifications.

## Managed vs bare-metal

You can run Redpanda on managed Kubernetes platforms as well as in bare-metal environments. Managed Kubernetes services offer ease of deployment and maintenance, bare-metal environments provide complete control and potential cost efficiencies.

### Managed Kubernetes

Managed Kubernetes platforms manage one or more components of a Kubernetes cluster for you. Several cloud computing vendors provide this service, such as Google Cloud's Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Amazon Web Services' Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).

Managed Kubernetes platforms provide the following benefits:

- **Ease of deployment**: Managed Kubernetes platforms allow you to provision cloud instances to serve as worker nodes. These instances are pre-configured with Kubernetes agent software and automatically join your Kubernetes cluster, making the process of deploying Redpanda simpler and more efficient.
- **Control Plane maintenance**: The managed service provider maintains and updates the control plane software, ensuring that it remains secure, reliable, and up-to-date.
- **Health monitoring and repairs**: The health of the master nodes is continuously monitored, and repairs are made as necessary. This provides an additional level of confidence in the reliability of the platform.

However, you are still responsible for deploying and maintaining your Redpanda instances on the worker nodes.

### Bare-metal Kubernetes environments

Bare-metal Kubernetes environments refer to any deployments where you are responsible for both the control plane and the worker nodes. Running Redpanda on bare-metal environments offers several advantages:

- **Complete control**: With bare-metal Kubernetes, you have full control over every aspect of the deployment. Bare-metal deployments may be beneficial when your needs aren't addressed by managed Kubernetes services.
- **Custom configuration**: Bare-metal allows for granular control over the Kubernetes configuration, meaning you can fine-tune the environment.
- **Cost efficiency**: Owning and operating your own hardware may prove to be more cost-effective.

## Documentation conventions

The Kubernetes documentation follows these conventions:

- Resource names: Kubernetes resources names, such as Service or PersistentVolume, are distinguished by the use of Pascal case. These are the names of resources when specified as a kind in manifest files.

- Helm values: Helm values, such as `storage.persistentVolume.enabled`, are rendered in monospace font and written according to the JSON path specification.

## Next steps

Whether you're deploying locally or in the cloud, choose one of the following guides to get you started:

- [Local](../local-guide) (kind and Minikube)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service](../aks-guide) (AKS)
- [Elastic Kubernetes Service](../eks-guide) (EKS)
- [Google Kubernetes Engine](../gke-guide) (GKE)

Or, you can explore our [production workflow](../production-workflow) to learn more about the requirements and best practices.

## Suggested reading

- Learn what an operator is in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).
- Learn about Helm concepts in the [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/).
- [Redpanda Helm Specification](../../../../../reference/redpanda-helm-spec)
- [Redpanda CRD Reference](../../../../../reference/crd)

Commit message:

Apply changes and suggestions from #1768

docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/kubernetes/kubernetes-production-deployment.mdx, after:

---
title: Redpanda in Kubernetes
tags:
  - Kubernetes
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda in Kubernetes | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn about Redpanda in Kubernetes and the tools that are available."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/kubernetes/kubernetes-production-deployment/" />
</head>

Kubernetes is a container orchestration tool that helps you to manage Redpanda deployments using declarative configuration files called _manifests_.
Kubernetes provides a standardized way of achieving the following:

- High availability
- Disaster recovery
- Scalability

## Redpanda Helm chart vs Redpanda Operator

To deploy Redpanda in Kubernetes, you can choose to use Helm for its simplicity, or combine Helm with the Redpanda Operator to leverage custom resource definitions (CRDs) for a more GitOps-friendly deployment process. Redpanda Operator is the recommended deployment option.

| Feature                            | Helm                                                       | Helm + Redpanda Operator                                     |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Version management**             | Directly supported through Helm, enabling updates and rollbacks. | Managed through Helm. |
| **Multi-tenant Kubernetes clusters** | Supported. Helm allows you to deploy multiple independent Redpanda clusters by defining different Helm release names. | Supported. The Redpanda Operator enables a more declarative approach for managing multi-tenant clusters using the RedpandaList custom resource. |
| **Dependency and configuration management** | Managed directly through the Redpanda Helm chart. | Configurations defined in custom resources are passed to Helm, which then manages the dependencies and configurations. |

:::tip
If you are already using the Redpanda Helm chart and want to migrate to the latest Redpanda Operator to manage your deployment, see [Migrate from the Redpanda Helm chart](../../../../../upgrade/migrate/kubernetes/helm-to-operator).
:::

### Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes, which simplifies the process of defining, installing, and upgrading Kubernetes applications. Helm uses charts, a collection of files that describe a related set of Kubernetes resources, to deploy applications in a Kubernetes cluster.

The Redpanda Helm chart generates and applies all the manifest files you need for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes, including:

- The StatefulSet to manage the Redpanda brokers.
- A Headless ClusterIP Service for internal communication with the Redpanda cluster.
- A NodePort Service for external communication with the Redpanda cluster.

The Redpanda Helm chart comes with default settings that enable a straightforward deployment out of the box. However, Helm also offers customization by allowing you to override these default values.

You can override the defaults in your own YAML files using the `--values` option or directly in the command line with the `--set` option. These changes in Helm chart values not only influence the configuration of the Redpanda cluster, but also determine what Kubernetes resources are deployed and how these resources are configured.

### Helm and Redpanda Operator

The recommended option for deploying Redpanda in Kubernetes is a combination of Helm and Redpanda Operator.

The Redpanda Operator complements the Redpanda Helm chart by extending Kubernetes with custom resource definitions (CRDs). These CRDs allow Redpanda clusters to be represented as native Kubernetes resources. This abstraction makes it simpler to manage the lifecycle of Redpanda deployments, as the Redpanda Operator takes the specifications declared in the CRDs and passes them to Helm for execution.

When using the Redpanda Operator, configurations defined in the custom resources are passed to Helm, which then deploys the Redpanda cluster according to these specifications.

## Managed vs bare-metal

You can run Redpanda on managed Kubernetes platforms as well as in bare-metal environments. Managed Kubernetes services offer ease of deployment and maintenance, bare-metal environments provide complete control and potential cost efficiencies.

### Managed Kubernetes

Managed Kubernetes platforms manage one or more components of a Kubernetes cluster for you. Several cloud computing vendors provide this service, such as Google Cloud's Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Amazon Web Services' Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS).

Managed Kubernetes platforms provide the following benefits:

- **Ease of deployment**: Managed Kubernetes platforms allow you to provision cloud instances to serve as worker nodes. These instances are pre-configured with Kubernetes agent software and automatically join your Kubernetes cluster, making the process of deploying Redpanda simpler and more efficient.
- **Control Plane maintenance**: The managed service provider maintains and updates the control plane software, ensuring that it remains secure, reliable, and up-to-date.
- **Health monitoring and repairs**: The health of the master nodes is continuously monitored, and repairs are made as necessary. This provides an additional level of confidence in the reliability of the platform.

However, you are still responsible for deploying and maintaining your Redpanda instances on the worker nodes.

### Bare-metal Kubernetes environments

Bare-metal Kubernetes environments refer to any deployments where you are responsible for both the control plane and the worker nodes. Running Redpanda on bare-metal environments offers several advantages:

- **Complete control**: With bare-metal Kubernetes, you have full control over every aspect of the deployment. Bare-metal deployments may be beneficial when your needs aren't addressed by managed Kubernetes services.
- **Custom configuration**: Bare-metal allows for granular control over the Kubernetes configuration, meaning you can fine-tune the environment.
- **Cost efficiency**: Owning and operating your own hardware may prove to be more cost-effective.

## Documentation conventions

The Kubernetes documentation follows these conventions:

- Resource names: Kubernetes resources names, such as Service or PersistentVolume, are distinguished by the use of Pascal case. These are the names of resources when specified as a kind in manifest files.

- Helm values: Helm values, such as `storage.persistentVolume.enabled`, are rendered in monospace font and written according to the JSON path specification.

## Next steps

Whether you're deploying locally or in the cloud, choose one of the following guides to get you started:

- [Local](../local-guide) (kind and Minikube)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service](../aks-guide) (AKS)
- [Elastic Kubernetes Service](../eks-guide) (EKS)
- [Google Kubernetes Engine](../gke-guide) (GKE)

Or, you can explore our [production workflow](../production-workflow) to learn more about the requirements and best practices.

## Suggested reading

- Learn what an operator is in the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).
- Learn about Helm concepts in the [Helm documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/).
- [Redpanda Helm Specification](../../../../../reference/redpanda-helm-spec)
- [Redpanda CRD Reference](../../../../../reference/crd)
